HCIDOCS-72: DS & RN: METAL-650 Attach non-bootable ISO to BMH (#77467)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/bmo-attaching-a-non-bootable-iso-to-a-bare-metal-node.adoc

// This module is included in the following assemblies: 
//

> // post_installation_configuration/bare-metal-configuration.adoc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// post_installation_configuration/bare-metal-configuration.adoc
```
```suggestion
// * post_installation_configuration/bare-metal-configuration.adoc
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="attaching-a-non-bootable-iso-to-a-bare-metal-node_{context}"]
= Attaching a non-bootable ISO to a bare-metal node

> You can attach a generic non-bootable ISO virtual media image to a provisioned node using the `DataImage` resource. Once you apply the resource, the ISO becomes accessible to the operating system after it boots. This is useful for configuring a node after provisioning the operating system, and before booting the node for the first time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can attach a generic, non-bootable ISO virtual media image to a provisioned nod by using the `DataImage` resource. Once you apply the resource, the ISO image becomes accessible to the operating system after it has booted. This is useful for configuring a node after the operating system has been deployed and before the node boots for the first time.
```

.Prerequisites

> * The node must use Redfish or its derived drivers to support this feature.
> * The node must be in the `Provisioned` or `ExternallyProvisioned` state.
> * The `name` must be the same name as the node as defined in its `BareMetalHost` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The node must use Redfish or drivers derived from it to support this feature.
* The node must be in the `Provisioned` or `ExternallyProvisioned` state.
* The `name` must be the same as the name of the node defined in its `BareMetalHost` resource.
```

> * The `url` to the ISO image must be valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have a valid `url` to the ISO image.
```

.Procedure

. Create a `DataImage` resource:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
kind: DataImage
metadata:

>   name: <node_name> <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: <node_name> # <1>
```

spec:

>   url: "http://dataimage.example.com/non-bootable.iso" <2>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  url: "http://dataimage.example.com/non-bootable.iso" # <2>
```

----

> <1> Replace `<node_name>` with the name of the node as defined in its `BareMetalHost` resource.
> <2> Replace `http://dataimage.example.com/non-bootable.iso` with the URL and path to the ISO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Specify the name of the node as defined in its `BareMetalHost` resource.
<2> Specify the URL and path to the ISO image.
```

> . Save the `DataImage` resource to a file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save the `DataImage` resource to a file by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ vim <node_name>-dataimage.yaml
----

. Apply the `DataImage` resource by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <node_name>-dataimage.yaml -n openshift-machine-api <1>
----

> <1> Ensure that the namespace is the same as the namespace for the `BareMetalHost` resource. For example, `openshift-machine-api`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Ensure that the namespace matches the namespace for the `BareMetalHost` resource. For example, `openshift-machine-api`.
```

* The node must be in the `Provisioned` or `ExternallyProvisioned` state.
* The `name` must be the same as the name of the node defined in its `BareMetalHost` resource.
* You have a valid `url` to the ISO image.

.Procedure

. Create a `DataImage` resource:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
kind: DataImage
metadata:
  name: <node_name> # <1>
spec:
  url: "http://dataimage.example.com/non-bootable.iso" # <2>
----
<1> Specify the name of the node as defined in its `BareMetalHost` resource.
<2> Specify the URL and path to the ISO image.

. Save the `DataImage` resource to a file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ vim <node_name>-dataimage.yaml
----

. Apply the `DataImage` resource by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <node_name>-dataimage.yaml -n openshift-machine-api <1>
----
<1> Ensure that the namespace matches the namespace for the `BareMetalHost` resource. For example, `openshift-machine-api`.

. Reboot the node. 
+
[NOTE]
====
You can physically reboot the node or attach the `reboot.metal3.io` annotation to the `BareMetalHost` resource. 

> ====

Author: Done.

. View the `DataImage` resource by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get dataimage <node_name> -n openshift-machine-api -o yaml

Author: Done.

----
+
.Example output
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
items:
- apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
  kind: DataImage
  metadata:
    annotations:
      kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration: |

>         {"apiVersion":"metal3.io/v1alpha1","kind":"DataImage","metadata":{"annotations":{},"name":"bmh-node-1","namespace":"test-dataimage"},"spec":{"url":"http://dataimage.example.com/non-bootable.iso"}}

Reviewer 2: namespace: openshift-machine-api

Author: Done.

    creationTimestamp: "2024-06-10T12:00:00Z"
    finalizers:
    - dataimage.metal3.io
    generation: 1
    name: bmh-node-1

>     namespace: test-dataimage

Reviewer 2: namespace: openshift-machine-api

Author: Done
